Intro.md, before:


# The Self-led Contributor
*The last mile trot to distributed leadership at the workplace*


## Getting started
A little warm up with some WH questions.

### Why read this primer?
Do you crave freedom and control at your workplace? Do your crave for that feeling of fulfillment, of having achieved something meaningful? Don't you want to feel proud of who you are and what you do at the workplace? Don't you wish to be the indespensible craftsman of our work?

Each one of us knowledge worker already holds the key to unlock our full potential, to serve as a true leader, irrespective of who we are or what position we hold at the current time.

 There is adequate literature and knowledge that's more readily and easily available than ever before to enable us for the same.  

 Then what's holding us back? 

Let's contemplate.

### Who is this primer for?
For every individual who spends significant hours of their daily life at a workplace. From freshers to seasoned masters.


### What is this primer about?
>*Why do I have Monday blues?  
Why am I ok with ok?  
Why do I put up with clumsy bosses?  
Why am I not even half way of where I though I would be when I started, even after working hard?  
Is anyone listening? The org, my team, my colleague?  
Why do I have to attend that sucky Thursday meeting?  
Am I where I'm meant to be or have I choosen this?  
If I'm not getting promoted I will be irrelevant soon  
Can I change all of this?*  

You get the drift right?

### Novelty of the concept

I would like to quote one of my favorite modern-day Gurus on personal management  
>*"An empowered organization is one in which individuals have the knowledge, skill, desire, and opportunity to personally succeed in a way that leads to collective organizational success" - Stephen Covey*  

and with that establish, about the rest of the primer, that there is *nothing* novel that's being stated.  

Except for a simple, common-sensical, ~~multi-level~~ framework that can take us all to a desirable state.


## The audacious argument

Each one of us (knowledge) worker can be charcterized as follows -
* Principally we are a wanderer, who's drifted along starting from graduation all the way to spending years working and of which we would call a career. It's clarity in hindsight about the past, and for the future, there is next step possibility.

* We understand little about motivation, about habits and how the brain makes decisions. Hence we have an endless list of unfinished projects - be it health, finances or even learning and those recurring patterns in life.

* We either block stuff out as being obvious, or 'I-know-it', or 'It's not for me', including matters that belong in our sphere of control and hence give rise to zombied Jargons. Take 'Leadership' for example. 
*Does this term really matter to me for another 2/5/7/10 years?*

These 3 self-bashing characteristics have a recurring effect and hence will also find place in further discussions. For now they are sufficient to make my audacious argument -

*I have, myself, given away willingly, the very personal virtues that belong only to me, to some lord of the dark. And to fill the void I now expect external faculties to take full responsibility to complete me.*  
-

Isn't it true?  
Don't we blame the entities that we are associated with for not caring enough? For not giving us adequate space and resources to accomplish our goals?

We blame the organization for not giving us the right promotion, or the right hikes, and that they don't care enough about our personal growth?  
We blame the team for not being invested or focussed enough.  
We blame our family for being too dependent.  

Take a moment to pause. What other blames can you think of? Write them down.

The audacious argument is that we have given away way more control than we may have wanted to while organizational leadership frameworks continually reinforce  that it's the worker who needs to be provided with enablement. And hence a provider-and-consumer transaction always exists in a place where there needs to be none.  
Can you see your (provider) manager trying to solve your problem at the workplace while being nice to you?  



## The simple alternative

>*"Look within, you are the world" - Jiddu Krishnamurti*

Just as audacious is the argument, the answer is the polar opposite, it's quite simple.

We simply **OWN** what's ours -
* How I feel about myself ?
* How worthy am I ?
* I'm in charge of my journey - what I want to be, where do I want to reach?
* How do I manage expectations

Why should anybody get to tell me about any of these?

Read out aloud -

I am responsible for how I feel  
I am responsible for my choices  
I am responsible for my behavior  
-


For those who feel perenially anxious at the workplace, read it out aloud till it gives you goosebumps.

Now I know what your brain is telling you... Oh, you know what I know this, this is just pulp content. Oh, you sure know it and maybe it is pulp content.  
But pause. Take a deep breath.  
Remind yourself of the self-bashing characteristic number 3 that aided me to call us all a cripple-of-sorts.

>*"Who looks outside, dreams; who looks inside, awakes" - Carl Jung*

Now go back to the three enabler statements and read them one by one and answer the questions below. And before you go there I will make the disclaimer that makes or breaks this journey for each one us. While the simple alternative is actually simple to state, internalizing it is quite different affair. The answers lie in different themes of science. 

Here's the **Call for Action**

By deliberate attention and practice on a set of virtues, that belong to me, the very virtues that can be learnt and perfected by understanding the exact science behind it, I permanently set out on a journey that improves the quality of existence on all fronts - personal, team and org culture.
-


 **HOW** we can go about achieving it forms the following sections of the primer.


 ## The theory

### The three actors 
SLC, SLT, Org

Commit message:

Sections identified
Identified new sections from the flow I want to maintain as being consistent with the flow of the intro.md

Intro.md, after:


# The Self-led Contributor
*The last mile trot to distributed leadership at the workplace*


## Getting started
A little warm up with some WH questions.

### Why read this primer?
Do you crave freedom and control at your workplace? Do your crave for that feeling of fulfillment, of having achieved something meaningful? Don't you want to feel proud of who you are and what you do at the workplace? Don't you wish to be the indespensible craftsman of our work?

Each one of us knowledge worker already holds the key to unlock our full potential, to serve as a true leader, irrespective of who we are or what position we hold at the current time.

 There is adequate literature and knowledge that's more readily and easily available than ever before to enable us for the same.  

 Then what's holding us back? 

Let's contemplate.

### Who is this primer for?
For every individual who spends significant hours of their daily life at a workplace. From freshers to seasoned masters.


### What is this primer about?
>*Why do I have Monday blues?  
Why am I ok with ok?  
Why do I put up with clumsy bosses?  
Why am I not even half way of where I though I would be when I started, even after working hard?  
Is anyone listening? The org, my team, my colleague?  
Why do I have to attend that sucky Thursday meeting?  
Am I where I'm meant to be or have I choosen this?  
If I'm not getting promoted I will be irrelevant soon  
Can I change all of this?*  

You get the drift right?

### Novelty of the concept

I would like to quote one of my favorite modern-day Gurus on personal management  
>*"An empowered organization is one in which individuals have the knowledge, skill, desire, and opportunity to personally succeed in a way that leads to collective organizational success" - Stephen Covey*  

and with that establish, about the rest of the primer, that there is *nothing* novel that's being stated.  

Except for a simple, common-sensical, ~~multi-level~~ framework that can take us all to a desirable state.


## The audacious argument

Each one of us (knowledge) worker can be charcterized as follows -
* Principally we are a wanderer, who's drifted along starting from graduation all the way to spending years working and of which we would call a career. It's clarity in hindsight about the past, and for the future, there is next step possibility.

* We understand little about motivation, about habits and how the brain makes decisions. Hence we have an endless list of unfinished projects - be it health, finances or even learning and those recurring patterns in life.

* We either block stuff out as being obvious, or 'I-know-it', or 'It's not for me', including matters that belong in our sphere of control and hence give rise to zombied Jargons. Take 'Leadership' for example. 
*Does this term really matter to me for another 2/5/7/10 years?*

These 3 self-bashing characteristics have a recurring effect and hence will also find place in further discussions. For now they are sufficient to make my audacious argument -

*I have, myself, given away willingly, the very personal virtues that belong only to me, to some lord of the dark. And to fill the void I now expect external faculties to take full responsibility to complete me.*  
-

Isn't it true?  
Don't we blame the entities that we are associated with for not caring enough? For not giving us adequate space and resources to accomplish our goals?

We blame the organization for not giving us the right promotion, or the right hikes, and that they don't care enough about our personal growth?  
We blame the team for not being invested or focussed enough.  
We blame our family for being too dependent.  

Take a moment to pause. What other blames can you think of? Write them down.

The audacious argument is that we have given away way more control than we may have wanted to while organizational leadership frameworks continually reinforce  that it's the worker who needs to be provided with enablement. And hence a provider-and-consumer transaction always exists in a place where there needs to be none.  
Can you see your (provider) manager trying to solve your problem at the workplace while being nice to you?  



## The simple alternative

>*"Look within, you are the world" - Jiddu Krishnamurti*

Just as audacious is the argument, the answer is the polar opposite, it's quite simple.

We simply **OWN** what's ours -
* How I feel about myself ?
* How worthy am I ?
* I'm in charge of my journey - what I want to be, where do I want to reach?
* How do I manage expectations

Why should anybody get to tell me about any of these?

Read out aloud -

I am responsible for how I feel  
I am responsible for my choices  
I am responsible for my behavior  
I am responsible for their consistency  
-


For those who feel perenially anxious at the workplace, read it out aloud till it gives you goosebumps.

Now I know what your brain is telling you... Oh, you know what I know this, this is just pulp content. Oh, you sure know it and maybe it is pulp content.  
But pause. Take a deep breath.  
Remind yourself of the self-bashing characteristic number 3 that aided me to call us all a cripple-of-sorts.

>*"Who looks outside, dreams; who looks inside, awakes" - Carl Jung*

~~Now go back to the three enabler statements and read them one by one and answer the questions below. And before you go there~~ I will make the disclaimer that makes or breaks this journey for each one us. While the simple alternative is actually simple to state, internalizing it is quite different affair. For some it takes years, for others it's decades.  

"It's difficult, but that's because it is valuable. By starting early, the power of compunding will bear it's fruit"
  
Here's the **Call for Action**

By deliberate attention and practice on a set of virtues that belong to me, the very virtues that can be learnt and perfected by understanding the exact science behind them, I permanently set out on a journey that improves the quality of existence on all fronts - personal, team and org culture.
-


 **HOW** we can go about achieving it forms the following sections of the primer.

With this we hit the first pitstop. This is where you choose - to abort or to read further. If it's the first, then you and I owe nothing to one another.  
Have a good life. Ciao.

For the latter, thanks for trusting. I promise to make this read worthwhile.

## Grade 2 - Know yourself (The bias theories)

## Grade 3 - Re-wire (but how)
